docs: share our issue management, planning, and release policies (#5432)
microsoft/fast: sites/website/src/docs/community/engineering-process/issue-management.md

---
id: issue-management
title: Issue Management
sidebar_label: Issue Management
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/microsoft/fast/edit/master/sites/website/src/docs/engineering/issue-management.md
---
Managing a popular GitHub repo with a small team is not an easy task. It requires a good balance between creating new features while handling many investigations and bug fixes associated with existing ones.

During the last couple of years the amount of incoming issues has been constantly growing. While this is a sign of a healthy framework and ecosystem surrounding it, it's becoming harder to react to all those issues.

To keep up with ever-evolving expectations, we use a set of rules to help us better handle the incoming issues.

## Goals

The goals of these rules are listed below in priority order:

- Make it easy to make triage decisions for each issue filed in this repository
- Be able to easily prioritize issues

> - Set proper expectations with customers regarding how issues are going to be handled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set proper expectations with the community regarding how issues are going to be handled
```

## Triage Process Details

> The feature teams should be able look through every single issue filed against this repository and be able to make a quick call regarding the nature of the issue.

Reviewer: Who are the "feature teams"?

Author: I'd consider you and Bill a feature team. Nick and Wendy now as well. More broadly my team and Chris team. But I'm trying not to get into all the individual team break down and just generically referring to "feature teams" here.

We will first categorize the issues and further handle these depending on the category the issue is in. The subsections below represent these categories and the rules we apply for them during our triage review.

### Information Gathering

> In this phase we instruct the user on how to collect the appropriate diagnostics and see if they are able to address the issue with that additional information.  When we need user input we will mark the issue with the `status:needs-information` label. Issues in this phase may be closed automatically if we do not receive timely responses; they often do not provide enough information for us to investigate further.

Reviewer 2: You might consider linking to the specific policy for `status:needs-information` here. My first thought in reading this was "what constitutes a 'timely response'"

Reviewer 3: I consider a timely response to be less than the amount of time you would grow frustrated if you were blocked on an issue that you filed into some system.  For example, I file a lot of bugs and if they were not triaged in 24 hours for open source I would be disappointed.  So, IMHO I believe 12 hours is a timely response.  The faster we respond to our community the more they will praise us, and thus share their experience.  Especially, for first-timers, and newbies.

### Needs Information

If a contributor reviews an issue and determines that more information is needed from the author, they will post a comment requesting that information and apply the `status:needs-information` label. This label indicates that the author needs to post a response in order for us to continue investigating the issue.

If the author does not post a response within **7 days**, the issue may be closed. If the author responds within **7 days** after the issue is closed, the issue will be  re-opened. We recognize that you may not be able to respond immediately to our requests, we're happy to hear from you whenever you're able to provide the new information.

### PR: Needs Author Input

Similar to the `status:needs-information` process above, PRs also require author input from time to time. When a member of our team asks for some follow-up changes from the author, we mark these PRs with `status:needs-author-input` label. After doing so, we expect the author to respond within 14 days.

> If the author does not post a response or updates the PR within **14 days**, the issue will be closed. If the author responds within **7 days** after the issue is closed, the issue will be re-opened. We recognize that you may not be able to respond immediately to our requests, we're happy to hear from you whenever you're able to provide the new information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the author does not post a response or updates the PR within **14 days**, the issue may be closed. If the author responds within **7 days** after the issue is closed, the issue will be re-opened. We recognize that you may not be able to respond immediately to our requests, we're happy to hear from you whenever you're able to provide the new information.
```
Above in the "Needs Information" section you use "may" instead of "will" when referencing closing an issue - using "will" struck me as a hard commitment we were making that maybe wasn't intentional?

Author: I like the softer approach you recommend. In practice we probably won't do that exactly unless later we introduce automation for this. So, I agree "may" is better.

### Duplicate Issues

If we determine that the issue is a duplicate of another, we will label it with the `closed:duplicate` label, link it to the duplicate, and close the issue.

### Answered Questions

If we determine that the issue is a question, we will label it with `community:question`. If we have posted an answer, we will label it with the `closed:done` label. The issue will be then be closed.

### Locking Closed Issues

After an issue has been closed and had no activity for **30 days** it may be locked. This is done in order to reduce confusion as to where to post new comments. If you are still encountering the problem reported in an issue, or have a related question or bug report, feel free to open a *new issue* and link to the original (now locked) issue!

## Acknowledgements

> Many thanks to the .NET team for sharing their policies and practices upon which this document was based.

Reviewer 3: Is there a link we can include for the .NET team?  Cross-linking with credible partners is great for SEO.

Author: I'll think I missed a few things. I'll check in and make sure this matches our other docs and is consistent throughout.
